So, now we have built a app
where you can choose moods and
we have a history tab where
you can see past moods.
But you will notice that if I reload
our app then the history is wiped and
obviously this is not very handy
because I would like to have an actual
history of my moods.
So, the data is currently stored in
memory and we lose it when we relaunch.
So, the way to prevent this is
that we need to physically store
the data in on the device so that if
you were to close the app and reopen or
even just reload the app with JavaScript,
we will still have our past moods.
On the web, you're probably already
familiar with local storage and
there is an equivalent in
React Native is called async storage.
It kind of works the same
way as local storage but
the difference is that it is as
the name suggests, asynchronous.
Anything that you store in local
storage has to be serializable and
in layman's terms, this basically means
you can't store objects or functions,
or anything like that, or
classes or references.
So, it needs to be stringed in numbers
because we call to string on the value
that we're going to store.
Async storage is a native library, so
let's copy this install command and
we'll open a terminal and
install the library
And for iOS we'll cd into the ios
directory and pod install.
So, you'll see the library
that's going to install.
And let's go back to our root
directory and run yarn ios or
you can always run your app
through X code instead.
For Android, there's no need to
install packages just rebuild your app
using yarn Android or
rebuild via Android Studio.
So, stop and restart, so, for the API for
async storage is pretty straightforward,
so if we look at the docs.
We have getItem, setItem, mergeItem,
removeItem, getAllKeys and
clear, which are the ones that
I'm mostly ends up using.
So, let's look at the function signatures.
So, get item, you pass in a string key, so
this will be sandboxed kind of so
it will be scoped to your app.
So, for example,
you wouldn't be able to get the item
from another apps async storage.
So, this works similarly to local storage,
so you'll get the item by key.
And usually we will
store things by JSON but
you can just store individual strings
as well and then we get the value.
For setItem, it's pretty much the same,
but we just set the Item by key.
So, we take in two arguments,
the first one is the key and
the second one is the value
that you want to set.
So, this value needs to be a string.
Then we have clear to clear
the whole async storage.
You have removeItem to remove
this particular Item and
another handy one is getAllKeys.
So, this is get all of the keys
that are ever set for this app.
Let's see if the build has finished,
excellent timing.
All right, so
if we go to our app provider,
let's start by importing async storage,
From React Native, I think it's
a React Native community package.
There it is, so
React Native async storage, async storage.
And I'm just gonna quickly check
where I called the functions, so
I'll be consistent.
Okay, so let's figure out what we
want our app data to look like.
So, let's do type app data.
And we just wanna store the mood list.
Which will be a mood
option with timestamp.
So, generally things that
you store in async storage,
it's good to have them as JSON objects
because then you can always add keys and
let's also do it a constant for our key.
So, let's call it my app data.
What data key, let's do a set app data.
So, this takes in the app
data that we want to save.
We should be of type app data and
it doesn't return anything so we use void.
So, to do this we'll do const results
equals async storage dot setItem and
we'll use the data key.
And we'll JSON stringify our app data,
now this is an async function,
so I want to await it.
So, I need to make this into
an async arrow function.
Okay and this is actually telling me that,
you said there's going to return void but
actually it's a promise, so
I'm going to add promise.
So, it's asynchronous and
then is going to returning nothing
And we don't actually need the result.
So, we just get the app data, we set it
to async storage and then do nothing.
It's good practice to also surround
this in a try-catch because you don't
really want JavaScript errors here,
and if app data for
some reason wasn't what
you were expecting.
You don't really want errors here,
so I usually do a try and catch.
I'm kind of not doing anything with it.
All right, let's do another one for
actually getting the app data.
So, const get app data so
this will also be an async function.
We don't have any arguments but
it returns a promise with app data.
And let's do another try-catch here.
I will do a const of results,
I will await async storage getItem.
So, this is why it's nice to
pull these out to a constant,
just to make sure that
we use the same key.
And that's it.
So, this gives us the results and
we'll also because we JSON stringfied our
app data here,
we want to JSON pass the results.
So, we'll do return but we also need to
account for when the result is undefined.
So, we'll do if result,
Because obviously on initial
launch this will just be no,
return JSON parse and result.
Okay, and we also need a default value,
so let's do return null by default.
And we'd also need to tell
our promise that we do this.
So, just as a side note about TypeScript,
so
I don't actually need to
type these return types.
So, if I hover over this, you can look
at the function signature so it goes,
okay takes up data and
returns an empty promise.
If I remove this this is where
the static code checking comes to play,
if I remove this and hover over it,
TypeScript only knows this.
So, actually this return type is
superfluous which is quite handy,
so it can be nice to add it just
to sanity check your things.
Or if it's not returning what
you thought it was returning but
in this case we don't actually
need to explicitly type it.
I was just looking in get app data,
here we kind of do want to say
that if it's app data or no.
So, if we don't type it and
see that it's going to say, it returns
a promise of any, which isn't correct.
So, in this case we want to type it,
that's a good example again.
And then in this case, it doesn't
matter because we return nothing.
Cool, so we want to get and
set this on launch.
So, let's do a use effect.
So, if we do a use effect with an empty
dependency array, it gets run at launch.
And so, in use effect you can't
run asynchronous functions but
obviously this is asynchronous.
So, way around it is you
can define an asynchronous
function inside your use effect and
just call it.
So, let's do fetch app data,
this will be an async function.
And we'll do const data
equals get app data.
So, this will be async so
we need to await it.
And if data remember the default value for
it is no, then we set the mood
list to be data dot mood list.
And here let's just call fetch app data.
So, that's to get the initial data but
we also need to save the data
whenever we make a change.
So, just a quick way of doing it is,
I'm going to do it inside this
handle select mood callback.
So, let's make this not
an implicit return,
so I make this into an explicit return and
do const new mood list
which will be this value,
so we still want to return it.
But also,
before we return it let's set app data and
let's do a mood list to
be the new mood list
Alright that should be all the vets
let's reload to be clear and
let's add some moods, so
we've got two mood here.
And let's reload and they're still there.
Now, if I actually completely
close the app and reopen it,
they're still there so
they are get persisted across launches.